# CS-300-Portfolio
Portfolio
The central problem I was trying to solve during these projects was organizing, storing, sorting, and searching course information. Project One analyzed the run-time/memory costs of various data structures such as vectors, hash tables, and binary search trees. Project Two implemented working code that loads course information from a file, sorts courses, and prints them to standard out in alphanumeric sorted order. Combined, these projects helped me gain valuable experience with solving problems using data structures.

I began problem solving by skimming the project requirements and seeing what the program needed to accomplish. The program had to store course data so it could be recalled/displayed in sorted order. Picking the right data structure was essential for storing/sorting data. Data structures are important because they help programs run faster when searching/inserting/deleting/displaying data. Some data structures are better at searching quickly, while others may excel at sorting large quantities of information. I chose vectors for simplicity, hash tables for speed (when implemented properly), and binary search trees to automatically store information in sorted order.

A roadblock I faced was trying to relate project one to project two. We analyzed various data structures during project one, but now I had to produce my own working code. I wanted my code to not only work, but be the best solution. To get around this I split up the projects into parts. Read in the file, store course data, sort courses, print master list. These smaller problems were much easier to test and develop. Once every part was working, I was able to piece together the full program.

Completing this project changed how I view writing software. Before this class I would start coding immediately and make my program work. While this is one solution, it isn't always the best one. Now I spend more time thinking about how to make my code efficient, scalable, and well organized before even opening my IDE. Planning out the structure of a program before starting helps you produce a much cleaner solution. If you need to update your code a week, month, or year later it will be much easier if you plan ahead.

I believe this project helped me write better software because it forced me to improve my programming habits. I focused on writing code with better function names, and organized my code into logical groups. I also tried to write cleaner code that was easy to read and follow along. Clean code is important when you want to write maintainable software. If you want to update your code in the future it will be much easier if you write readable code. This course has allowed me to understand how data structures and algorithms can be used to create strong software designs.
